# Analysis-of-Covid-19-data-of-INDIA

######Installing Dependencies########

For the project to work you will need Python3 installed in your system along with Numpy, Pandas and Openpyxl. Open the terminal and run these commands one by one

sudo apt-get install python3

pip install numpy

pip install pandas

pip install openpyxl

######## Usage ############

For each question I have created separate shell script which run the python files for that question. All the scripts can be run by executing 'assign1.sh' file. Open the terminal in the extracted folder and run the following command.

bash assign1.sh
 
It took about 15-20 minutes for my system to execute all the files and generate output.

######### Working #########

The zip file contains a dataset folder, individual shell scripts for each question and python code for each question. 

**DATASET**
The dataset folder contains the following files:
census.xlsx, cowin_vaccine_data_districtwise.csv, districts.csv, neighbor-districts.csv, difference district.xlsx(contains wrong and right spellings of certain districts), wrongdist.csv (these district names were manually updated in census data).

After the execution of all the codes these files will get added to the dataset:
cen2.csv, distwithcode.csv and distwithoutcode.csv
These files contain information gathered from one question which is useful in another question.

**QUESTION 1 (q1.py, q1.sh)**
Vaccination data was used for district names and their district IDs. Some district names were corrected using 'difference district.xlsx' file. Two files 'distwithcode' and 'distwithoutcode' are outputed for use in further question. The disricts in neighbor-districts.csv were modified and named according to district IDs. Then the json file is outputed.

**QUESTION 2 (q2.py, edge-generator.sh)**
Information from previous question is used and edge-graph.csv is generated.
 
**QUESTION 3 (q3.py, case-generator.sh)**
Information from Q1 along with districts.csv is used. Non overlapping weeks are considered. Data was available only from Week 7 so the entries before that are neglected. Three files namely cases-week, cases-month, cases-overall are generated.

**QUESTION 4 (q4.py, peaks-generator.sh)**
Information from Q1 along with districts.csv is used. Overlapping weeks are considered. Wave 1 months are taken as 1 to 5 and weeks as 1 to 44 (March 15 to August 15). Wave2 months as 13 to 15 and weeks as 113 to 130 (15 April to 15 June). The peaks are calculated between these ranges. Three files namely district-peaks,state-peaks and overall-peaks are generated.

**QUESTION 5 (q5.py, vaccinated-count-generator.sh)**
Vaccination data is used to calculate weekly, monthly and overall vaccinated people district wise and state wise. SIX files are generated: district-vaccinated-count-week.csv, district-vaccinated-count-month.csv, district-vaccinated-count-overall.csv, state-vaccinated-count-week.csv, state-vaccinated-count-month.csv, state-vaccinated-count-overall.csv

**QUESTION 6 (q6.py, vaccination-population-ratio-generator.sh)**
Vaccination data and census data are used. In census data manual updation of names is done for the districts mentioned in 'wrongdist.csv' file. This census file is processed and a 'cen2.csv' is generated for further use. Files generated by running the program are district-vaccination-population-ratio.csv, state-vaccination-population-ratio.csv, overall-vaccination-population-ratio.csv

**QUESTION 7(q7.py,vaccine-type-ratio-generator.sh)**
Vaccination and modified census data are used to generate 3 output files namely district-vaccine-type-ratio.csv, state-vaccine-type-ratio.csv, overall-vaccine-type-ratio.csv.

**QUESTION 8(q8.py, vaccinated-ratio-generator.sh)**
Vaccination and modified census data are used to generate 3 output files.

**QUESTION 9(q9.py, complete-vaccination-generator.sh)**
Vaccination and modified census data are used to generate single output file.
